# NINA Python template
A template to fast setup python projects

## Requirements
- python
- pip
- [copier](https://github.com/copier-org/copier)

## How to use it
Make sure that `copier` is installed, then run:

```
copier copy gh:ninanor/python-template my-awesome-python-project
```

Answer the questions and you are done.


## Features
Why should I use this template:

- Auto formatting and code checking using `ruff`
- optional `Docker` image
- Updatable template
- Visual Studio configurations
- Git automatic setup
- Django optional template

## I want the simpliest of the templates
Press `Enter` to all questions, you'll get a simple python project to start with.

**Keep in mind** that you can always change your answers, it's fine if you want to start with something simple and then for example you need docker. Update the template, change your answers in the survey and you will get the code for that!

## How to update
Basically you just need to run:
```
copier update --trust
```

You can now change your questions, in case you want to keep your previous answers use: `copier update --trust --defaults`.

This will try to check differences between your project and the template, if no conflicts are found you are done.
Check this [page](https://copier.readthedocs.io/en/stable/updating/) for more specific info about this feature.


### Move the generated project
If you wish to move the project generated by the template in your filesystem, you need to:
- delete `.venv` (if it is present)
- create a new venv `python3 -m venv .venv`
- install again the dependencies `source .venv/bin/activate && pip install -e .[tools]`

## Available profiles
- python
    - docker; add standard files for dockerizing a python project
- django (web application development with docker and PostgreSQL)
    - gis; add support for GIS to django
    - ldap; allow users to login with NINA credentials (only for internal projects)
    - rest; creates a skelton for REST APIs
    - ui; add some ready to use code for serving UI code directly from Django


## Struggling with a template?
Please report any issues you have using the template, even if some documentation is unclear or is missing!
